SMASHER
=======

|Build Status| |Coverage Status| v 0.1.1

SMASHER is a command line tool for updating LTERLogger\_pro, our MSSQL
1st QC level provisional server. It can also get updates from MS043, the
production level annual server.

-  SMASHER will work for attributes of AIRTEMP, RELHUM, DEWPT, VPD,
   SOLAR, WSPD\_SNC, WSPD\_PRO, NR, LYS, PRECIP, PAR, SOILTEMP,
   SNOWDEPTH (pending), and SOILWC. It has methods for doing VPD from a
   calculation. These are technically called in the smashWorker.VPD2
   class, not the smashWorker.VPD class. It has methods for the two
   forms of WSPD\_PRO, one with the 5 minute maxes and one without.

-  for wind, SMASHER uses daily methods which respect the standard
   deviations and means of the day directionally; i.e. It decomposes and
   computes a mean resultant wind for the propellor anemometer, and uses
   the Yamartino method to get a coordinate-appropriate standard
   deviation.

-  SMASHER does not perform flagging on the high resolution data.
   SMASHER simply "smashes" high resolution flags into the daily
   aggregate.

-  SMASHER can compute the daily VPD from the daily AIRTEMP and RELHUM,
   or it can take the high resolution values. when it computes VPD, it
   also computes SATVP and VAPDEF.

-  SMASHER knows when to assign net radiometer to the net radiometer
   table and sonic wind to the sonic wind table.

-  SMASHER gets unhappy when you call VANMET VARMET or VARMET VANMET. It
   will grumble at you.

-  SMASHER will try to handle as many exceptions as it can by
   substituting null objects. However, if the exceptions get out of
   hand, it will stop and give you an error message. The batch versions
   (CREATE ALL, UPDATE ALL, DELETE ALL) are designed to run through
   every table and handle the errors that I could forsee, but there is
   of course the possibility of errors I did not forsee.

-  SMASHER when processing 5 minute maxes and mins in air temp and dew
   point, will first look for the daily max or min from a measured max
   or min for the five minute interval. if that column is null all day,
   it will then look to the mean to find the max or min for the day
   based on the extreme values about the mean.

-  SMASHER code contains the method and hr method "checkers". To run
   these checkers, see the section in Using SMASHER about the
   MethodControl and HRMethodControl

SMASHER is a product of Fox Peterson, Hans Luh, and Don Henshaw. It
prefers Python 2.7.

Using SMASHER.
==============

Using smasher is super easy.

First, clone this repo!

`super awesome smasher
repo <https://github.com/dataRonin/smashDB.git>`__

okay, you're ready to smash

--------------

Use the CREATE method to print to screen the rows and ranges you may
potentially create before doing an update.

For example:

::

        python smasher.py CREATE SHELDON SOLAR

Will give you back:

::

        You are processing using the SMASHER Python toolkit. (c) MIT 2015. You have given the following information: 

        ~ Method: CREATE
        ~ Attribute: SOLAR
        ~ Server: SHELDON
        ~ Start Date: None
        ~ End Date: None
        2015-04-15 00:00:00 2015-04-22 00:00:00
        Finished writing LogFile
        ['MS043', 5, 'CENMET', 'RAD112', 607, '1P', 'RADCEN01', '2015-04-15 00:00:00', 16.369, 'A', 189.5, 'A', 1027.0, 'A', '1215', 'NA', 'SHELDON']
        ['MS043', 5, 'CENMET', 'RAD112', 607, '1P', 'RADCEN01', '2015-04-16 00:00:00', 21.228, 'A', 245.667, 'A', 873.0, 'A', '1215', 'NA', 'SHELDON']
        ['MS043', 5, 'CENMET', 'RAD112', 607, '1P', 'RADCEN01', '2015-04-17 00:00:00', 21.463, 'A', 248.406, 'A', 870.0, 'A', '1200', 'NA', 'SHELDON']
        ['MS043', 5, 'CENMET', 'RAD112', 607, '1P', 'RADCEN01', '2015-04-18 00:00:00', 22.14, 'A', 256.25, 'A', 885.0, 'A', '1200', 'NA', 'SHELDON']

You can pass to CREATE either an attribute name AIRTEMP, RELHUM, DEWPT,
VPD, SOLAR, WSPD\_SNC, WSPD\_PRO, NR, LYS, PRECIP, PAR, SOILTEMP,
SNOWDEPTH, LIGHT and SOILWC -- preferable to be in CAPS but lower case
should be acceptable -- or the table number (MS04302, MS04305, etc.)

You can pass an extra arguement of a date range if you want to constrain
the creation.

For example:

::

        python smasher.py CREATE SHELDON SOLAR --startdate '2015-01-01 00:00:00' --enddate '2015-01-10 00:00:00'

or

::

        python smasher.py CREATE SHELDON MS04305 --startdate '2015-01-01 00:00:00' --enddate '2015-01-10 00:00:00'

You can also call CREATE on ALL.

ALL will run all the attributes, telling you when each is done

If you call VPD, it will try to get the VPD high-resolution data which
we are no longer collecting. VPD2 will compute VPD and the other
attributes from the raw AIRTEMP and RELHUM.

If you just want to create one station, call

::

        python smasher.py CREATE SHELDON SOLAR  --startdate '2015-01-01 00:00:00' --enddate '2015-01-10 00:00:00' --station CENMET

You can use the start/end date with the station, or just call it by
itself

::

        python smasher.py CREATE SHELDON SOLAR --station CENMET

If that station doesn't have the attribute, no problem! You just won't
get anything back.

If you want to print an approved structure for CSV, add on the flag
--csv TRUE to the end of your call

::

    python smasher.py CREATE SHELDON SOLAR  --startdate '2015-01-01 00:00:00' --enddate '2015-01-10 00:00:00' --station CENMET --csv TRUE

You can call --csv for any CREATE except "ALL". That would be a monster.

--------------

use the DELETE method to delete an attribute from LTERLogger\_pro
following a certain startdate

Because the update methods use bulk insert, if you are concerned you
have messed up the data, it is easier to DELETE and rebuild it than it
is to risk double entry.

For example:

::

        python smasher.py DELETE SHELDON SOLAR --startdate '2015-04-15 00:00:00' will delete daily SOLAR INCLUDING AND AFTER 2015-04-15. repeat: INCLUDING and AFTER!

You can also delete for only one station.

For example:

::

        python smasher.py DELETE SHELDON MS04305 --station CENMET --startdate '2015-04-15 00:00:00'

Be sure to use the double-dashed flags for station and startdate to
indicate their placement in the command.

You can also delete for a range. THIS IS NOT RECOMMENDED. You are not
protected in this program against creating duplicates, or leaving gaps.
It is not hard to write to the end. You have been warned!

::

        python smasher.py DELETE SHELDON SOLAR --startdate '2015-04-15 00:00:00' --enddate '2015-04-20 00:00:00'

--------------

use the UPDATE method to update the database LTERLogger\_pro

Note that you cannot both UPDATE and make CSVs. CSVs are in the CREATE
method. This is to keep you from accidentally updating the database when
you just want to get some daily data from it that you may already have.
However, in general, you:

Call UPDATE the same way you called CREATE, for example:

::

        Foxs-MacBook-Pro:smash dataRonin$ python smasher.py UPDATE SHELDON PRECIP
         You are processing using the SMASHER Python toolkit. (c) MIT 2015. You have given the following information: 

        ~ Method: UPDATE
        ~ Attribute: PRECIP
        ~ Server: SHELDON
        ~ Start Date: None
        ~ End Date: None
        ~ Sitecode or Station: None
        ~ Creating CSV?: None
        finished creating PRECIP from 2014-01-02 00:00:00 to 2015-06-23 00:00:00
        checking that the methods are updated
        Updating your heights, depths, and methods prior to insertion in the db!
        This will update the LTERLogger_Pro database
        database updated from 2014-01-02 00:00:00 to 2015-06-23 00:00:00 for PRECIP
        Foxs-MacBook-Pro:smash dataRonin$ 

This is the simplest update. The Precip function has just recently been
added here. Here is what we would see in the database! (just a few rows,
descending order). It has not really rained much!

::

        DBCODE  ENTITY  SITECODE    PRECIP_METHOD   HEIGHT  QC_LEVEL    PROBE_CODE  DATE    PRECIP_TOT_DAY  PRECIP_TOT_FLAG EVENT_CODE  DB_TABLE    ID
        MS043   3   PRIMET  PPT108  100 2D  PPTPRI01    Jun 21 2015 12:00:00:000AM  0.0 NA      SHELDON_LTERLogger_PRO_MS04313  536
        MS043   3   PRIMET  PPT108  100 2D  PPTPRI01    Jun 20 2015 12:00:00:000AM  0.0 NA      SHELDON_LTERLogger_PRO_MS04313  535
        MS043   3   PRIMET  PPT108  100 2D  PPTPRI01    Jun 19 2015 12:00:00:000AM  0.0 NA      SHELDON_LTERLogger_PRO_MS04313  534

For all updates, your methods will be checked against
METHOD\_HISTORY\_DAILY, just in case.

For every attribute, an instance of mylog is generated to print errors.
Although the names of the mylog files vary, they are all created in the
home directory.

For example, mylog\_dewpoint.csv contains:

::

        "ERROR","DESCRIPTION"
        "incompleteday","Incomplete or overfilled day, 2015-04-16 00:00:00, probe DEWCEN04, total number of observations: 21"
        "incompleteday","Incomplete or overfilled day, 2015-04-16 00:00:00, probe DEWCEN01, total number of observations: 21"

mylog\_soilwc.csv contains:

::

        "ERROR","DESCRIPTION"
        "incompleteday","Incomplete or overfilled day:  2015-04-16 00:00:00, probe SWCCEN01, total number of observations: 21"
        "incompleteday","Incomplete or overfilled day:  2015-04-16 00:00:00, probe SWCCEN03, total number of observations: 21"
        "incompleteday","Incomplete or overfilled day:  2015-04-16 00:00:00, probe SWCCEN02, total number of observations: 21"
        "incompleteday","Incomplete or overfilled day:  2015-04-16 00:00:00, probe SWCCEN04, total number of observations: 21"

mylog\_sonic.csv contains

::

        "ERROR","DESCRIPTION"
        "nullday","the total number of observations on 2015-04-20 00:00:00 is 287 and probe WNDPRI02"
        "nullday","the total number of observations on 2015-04-16 00:00:00 is 21 and probe WNDCEN02"

These files don't do anything special, and you can call them whatever
you want. You can find them in the top of the condense\_data() method in
each Worker class. You can also just update one station, just add the
double-dashed station flag to your call.

For example:

::

        python smasher.py UPDATE SHELDON MS04305 --station CENMET --startdate '2015-04-10 00:00:00' --enddate '2015-05-01 00:00:00'

You do not need to use the startdate and enddate calls if you do not
want to. But, if you supply a start date, you must also supply an end
date.

--------------

use the READ method to read the methods in the database and output logs
of discrepancies

For example:

::

    python smasher.py READ STEWARTIA ALL

This reads all the methods and date ranges in Stewartia for the daily
data. This function is for information. It also generates error logs for
when methods in the daily and high resolution table do not match. I'd
suggest running this every so often just to make sure things are in line

Outputs for errors in the method\_code are in errorlog.csv and outputs
for the errors in eventcode are in eventlog.csv. eventlog.csv is looking
for when the event\_code should read "METHOD" but it says something
instead of "METHOD" (Like maybe "MAINTE" or some other 6 character code)

In the daily data, errorlog.csv looks like this:

::

        date_in_db,method_in_db,method_in_table,date_start_table,date_end_table
        2013-04-17,RAD014,RAD114,RADPRI02,2013-04-17 00:00:00,2050-12-31 00:00:00
        2013-04-18,RAD014,RAD114,RADPRI02,2013-04-17 00:00:00,2050-12-31 00:00:00

In the daily data, eventlog.csv looks like this:

::

        probe_code,date_start_table,date_end_table,current_event_code
        VPDCEN01,2014-08-26 00:00:00,2050-12-31 00:00:00,NA    
        VPDCEN01,2014-08-26 00:00:00,2050-12-31 00:00:00,NA    

If you want to read the high resolution data, just call READ on ALLHR:

::

    python smasher.py READ STEWARTIA ALLHR

In the HR data, errorlog\_hr.csv looks like this:

::

        VPDCEN04,2014-08-26 00:00:00,2050-12-31 00:00:00,NA    

Using the MethodControl and HRMethodControl
-------------------------------------------

The SMASHER api also can check the Method and HRMethod against the
method\_history and method\_history\_daily tables in LTERLogger\_new.

To check these tables, you will have to go into the Python environment
by typing

::

        python 

Then, import the smashControls module with all of its dependencies.

::

        from smashControls import *

Then, call the MethodControl or HRMethodControl class, instantiated on a
database. If you want to change databases in STEWARTIA you'll need to
make that adjusment in the raw code. There are sections commented
COMMENT ME IN FOR MS001 or COMMENT ME IN FOR MS043. The default right
now is MS001.

::

        mySmash = MethodControl('STEWARTIA')

        mySmash = MethodControl('SHELDON')

        mySmash = HRMethodControl('STEWARTIA')

        mySmash = HRMethodControl('SHELDON')

Once you have the object ready, you can run it like this:

::

        mySmash.process_db()

The daily (MethodControl) takes about 2 minutes to process. The 5 minute
takes about 15 minutes to process (HRMethodControl). Outputs are in
eventlog.csv, errorlog.csv, and heightlog.csv.

--------------

how stuff works in SMASHER.
---------------------------

The fundamental unit of smasher is the smashWorker classes. The Worker
classes are named for what attribute they compute and flag, such as
AirTemperature, DewPoint, or VPD. They are all in CamelCase and are
generally the full word for the attribute they represent. You can
actually call them as individuals, also, with something like:

::

        B = smashWorkers.AirTemperature(startdate, enddate, server)

All worker classes are in the file smashWorkers.py. Also in smashWorkers
are a DateRange class (to make sure that dates are in a range structure)
and a class to encapsulate how to get methods from the method\_history
and method\_history\_daily (MethodReader). You should not run SMASHER
without both a start and end date.

Here's an example of a call to make a smashWorker for AirTemperature on
STEWARTIA for quite some time:

::

        A = smashWorkers.AirTemperature('2014-01-01 00:00:00','2015-07-01 00:00:00','STEWARTIA')

The condense\_data() method in each Worker class contains the physical
functions used to condense the data. If you need to change the
algorithms for aggregation, they are all in the condense\_data()
functions. Each Worker has its own condense\_data() function, even if
that is a lot of repeated code, so that it can be flexible in the future
as loggers change.

For example, what if we condensed that old AirTemperature? (Note,
although it doesn't matter, it's good practice in smasher to call your
condensed data "nr" -- new rows -- this makes it easy to remember if the
data has been aggregated and encoded to ASCII)

::

        nr = A.condense_data()

We will now see several outputs telling us what method, site, and height
codes got assigned to the data. We'll then get the raw data and a log
file back.

These raw data are the "nr" variable- note they are rows, ready to be
csv-written!

::

        ['MS043', 1, 'PRIMET', 'AIR243', 350, '1D', 'AIRPRI08', '2015-03-08 00:00:00', 6.535, 'A', 17.5, 'A', '1415', -0.4, 'A', '0700', 'NA', 'STEWARTIA_FSDBDATA_MS04311']
        ['MS043', 1, 'PRIMET', 'AIR243', 350, '1D', 'AIRPRI08', '2015-03-09 00:00:00', 6.824, 'A', 18.3, 'A', '1515', 0.1, 'A', '0705', 'NA', 'STEWARTIA_FSDBDATA_MS04311']

Some workers, like AirTemperature, are smart to handle the "new style"
data with five-minute maxes. WSPD\_PRO and VPD are not so smart, and
have VPD2 and WSPD\_PRO2 "Friends" that handle the new style. They will
usually be called by default. Since most of VPD has changed, VPD2 is the
default, but since not most of WSPD\_PRO has changed, WSPD\_PRO is the
default.

The Workers are controlled by the Controls classes, found in
smashControls.py. The Controls dictate date ranges, method ranges, etc.,
that can be used in the API. DBControl, for example, is used to find the
recentest end date in the database in order to perform the minimum
update.MethodControl is used to find the methods for the READ function.
HRMethodControl finds the High-Resolution methods for the READ function.
The controls are used to reduce the amount of data we need to process on
each operation.

How we deal with the incorporation of the new methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In all these cases, the "try" block is for the "new method" and the
exception fails over to the old method. For example, in dew point, the
new method has max and min, and it is in different columns form the SQL
than in the old methods. So the old methods have columns 2 and 3, which
are the five minute means and flags, and the new methods have columns
4,5,6 and 7 which are the max, max time, min, and min time. We build the
lookup based on the output[probecode][datetime][trigger] and then append
to it from wherever we can find.

::

        od[probe_code][dt]['val'].append(str(row[2]))
        od[probe_code][dt]['fval'].append(str(row[3]))

        try:
            od[probe_code][dt]['minval'].append(str(row[4]))
            od[probe_code][dt]['minflag'].append(str(row[5]))
            od[probe_code][dt]['maxval'].append(str(row[6]))
            od[probe_code][dt]['maxflag'].append(str(row[7]))
        except Exception:
            od[probe_code][dt]['minval'].append(str(row[2]))
            od[probe_code][dt]['minflag'].append(str(row[3]))
            od[probe_code][dt]['maxval'].append(str(row[2]))
            od[probe_code][dt]['maxflag'].append(str(row[3]))

How we deal with the 2400 being in the previous day
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When we are building the output, we take the value and evaluate if it
has hour 0 and minute 0. If this is the case, then since the output is
going to be written to the "day" in mass, we simply assign it to the
previous day's "bin". This is only a problem on the "first day" if you
start at midnight, because then you get an extra day. The solution in
this case is just to test for if the first day is the first day of the
series and the first measurement contains a 0 hour and a 0 minute, and
if this is the case skip it.

Here's the part of the tool that resets the 0 hour and 0 minute to the
previous day's bin:

::

        od = {}

        for row in self.cursor:
            
            dt_old = datetime.datetime.strptime(str(row[0]),'%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S')

            if dt_old.hour == 0 and dt_old.minute == 0:
                dt_old = dt_old - datetime.timedelta(days=1)

            dt = datetime.datetime(dt_old.year, dt_old.month, dt_old.day)
            probe_code = str(row[1])

Later when we create the rows to put in SQL and in csv, we test for the
first day like this:

::

        if valid_dates[0] == self.daterange.dr[0] - datetime.timedelta(days=1):
                        valid_dates = sorted(self.od[probe_code].keys())[1:]
                    else:
                        pass

Notes on VPD:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The VPD2 method is really the only valid method. The VPD method is using
the old VPD set up and I'm keeping it in here in case you need it, but
you should only call VPD2 on new data. Smasher interface is configured
like this. If you have to debug VPD, don't even look at VPD method,
since it is never called.

Also, the new way, we don't use the probes 5-10 anywhere, because they
are aspirated, so this is coded in kind of roughly. You might have to
change this in the future if you use them for VPD.

::

        # skip values which are from PRIMET aspirated and other aspirated
        if probe_code[-2:] in ['05','06','07','08','09','10']:
            continue

SmashControls
-------------

The DBControl class provides reference to the database you will be
updating about what the most recent start and end dates are. If for some
reason the smash control fails, it may be due to MS04325/MS04335 not
being collected in the high resolution files. For now we default assume
they are collected. If not, a set of lists exists to query without them.
A class of DBControl has an attribute "lookup" which stores these start
and end dates by probe.

The build\_queries\_station() and build\_queries() methods introspect
the daily and high resolution tables to figure out what needs to be
updated. This protects us from writing duplicate values. These methods
figure out what was the last day and add one to it, so that the next day
must occur after it. When using station you get finer control, in case
not all stations were updated at the same time.

The MethodControl and HRMethodControl classes help to update the methods
for the entire database based on what is in the methods tables. They
aren't integrated into the main smasher, but are useful for background
work.

SmashBosses
-----------

The Bosses class right now only contains the update boss. Originally
this was a larger structure. UpdateBoss is used to write values back to
the database. UpdateBoss does some final checks on methods and writes
the insert statements using the information schema. It makes sure
everyone behaves.

The smasher API is how you work with SMASHER in the minimum typing way.
Call it from the command line and you should be up and running. It might
be kind of hard to install python at first, but we can help you get
through that. If you call python on the windows you need to make sure
you know where your .exe is, and please DO NOT use the system python. :)

--------------

Recent updates to SMASHER!
--------------------------

-  V. 0.1.1.: fixed a bug that happens if your start date and time is on
   the 0th hour of the 0th minute that would generate an extra day of
   null output:

   ::

       ## THIS CODE WAS ADDED ON 08/26/2015 -- it appears we could end up over writing one value each time we run this if we don't skip it due to dealing with the 2400 convention!
                   if valid_dates[0] == self.daterange.dr[0] - datetime.timedelta(days=1):
                       valid_dates = sorted(self.od[probe_code].keys())[1:]
                   else:
                       pass

-  V. 0.1.1 : added PAR MAX method and SOLAR MAX method. Methods will
   try to execute first, and fail to old method if not present.

UNIT TESTS ARE BEING DEVELOPED!

SMASHUNIT CONTAINS THE UNIT TESTS!

THEY ARE NOT COMPLETE YET!

-  V. 0.0.9 : fixed problem in Solar where multiple daily maximum values
   were generating multiple daily maximum flags; fixed problem in
   DewPoint where missing dew point maxes on new loggers were causing
   the whole row to get written as a null.

-  V. 0.0.9 : fixed the DBControl, which was rolling the Date value in a
   mass update across the table methods, invariably leaving out LYS. Now
   the values are deleted with each cycle, and when a value is not
   present for the most recent, "now" is taken as the most recent.

-  V.0.0.9 : Precip fixed to not have a duplicate output.

-  V.0.0.9 : Bug in PAR date stamp fixed. Also, for some reason the '.'
   after LTERLogger.dbo. had been removed for a few attributes on the
   update, so that we fixed also. Right now we don't have a clear update
   method for FSDBDATA written since this is only going LTERLogger to
   LTERLogger!

-  V.0.0.9 : NR daily table in LTERLogger\_pro is different type than in
   FSDBDATA, added in exception to handle this

-  PRE V. 0.0.8: totals/means now correctly assign the midnight value to
   the prior day.

-  PRE V. 0.0.8: VPD calculations have been clarified with better names

-  PRE V. 0.0.8: things like airtemp that may use older loggers pull in
   various date stamps. This may need to be expanded later.

-  PRE V. 0.0.8: default values for height and method were added to deal
   with inconsistencies or added sites. They are taken in the
   smashWorkers function.

   ::

       height_and_method_getter(probe_code, daterange)

-  PRE V. 0.0.8: gets the right probe code for daily from the table

   -  if it can't find it, it gives a warning and a height of 100, a
      method of prefix + 999 and a sitecode of "ANYMET"

-  PRE V. 0.0.8: "F" and "H" flags are given for 15-minute and Hourly
   values that are acceptable

-  PRE V. 0.0.8: DBControl can now take an argument of station to
   smartly get the date ranges for each station (useful for updates or
   creates)

-  PRE V. 0.0.8: The CREATE method now allows you to use the --csv TRUE
   flag to create a csv with an obvious name. You can make a --csv TRUE
   csv with the --station WHATEVER or with all stations. You can make a
   CSV only if you are doing one attribute. If you are doing more than
   one you need to do each CSV separately. This is for your own good.
   You can write a loop if you want to have more csvs. Something like
   "for attribute in list\_of\_attributes; do\_things();
   condense\_data(); write\_rows\_to\_csv;" etc.

-  PRE V. 0.0.8: All workers write errors in gathering or condensing
   data to myWhateverTheNameIs.csv. This is a reversion back from having
   the logs stored in .log files. .log files are not universally
   supported and also, writing to .csv is easier to read out.

-  V. 0.0.8 : The way of assigning method has been fixed. I found that
   in assigning method to old, long data streams, the condition of the
   date range being bigger than a whole method range would mean no
   method was found. In the new system, we look for the most recent
   method that the current date is bigger than. It takes a little more
   time, but it doesn't screw up as much.

-  V. 0.0.8 : Light has been removed for being useless.

-  V. 0.0.8 : Some comments that are generic I have moved here:

   -  This code means that the date format is %Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S, which
      is what the database likes to eat:

      humanrange = self.daterange.human\_readable()

-  V 0.0.8 : Basic functional tests in smashUnit.py all passing. Tests
   ranges, fallbacks, and both database connections. Was failing before
   trying to call a record of NR and Sonic outside of range. This is the
   error when outside of range is called:

   ::

       ======================================================================
       ERROR: test_longterm_nr (__main__.testMainLoop)
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       Traceback (most recent call last):
         File "smashUnit.py", line 249, in test_longterm_nr
           nr = A.condense_data()
         File "/Users/dataRonin/Documents/april2015/smash/smashWorkers.py", line 4008, in condense_data
           height, method_code, site_code = self.height_and_method_getter(probe_code, cursor_sheldon)
       TypeError: 'NoneType' object is not iterable

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/dataRonin/smashDB.svg
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/dataRonin/smashDB
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/dataRonin/smashDB/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github
   :target: https://coveralls.io/github/dataRonin/smashDB?branch=master
